# What's the problem with a pragmatic approach?

What happens if we stop worrying and just get on with it? Real world C++ applications get built, very often by using a pragamatic approach that minimizes reinventing the wheel, or anything else.

We pull together 3rd party dependencies for logging, file formats, async io and a dozen other things we don't want to deal with and focus on the core logic of our application. We deliver and everyone gets paid. 
All is golden, except. We're now balanced on a tettering pile of code written by people we don't know and, more importantly, who don't know one another. We've never read most of it. Security is open to question. Maintainability is a lottery. Version control is whatever. Updates will work without problems, maybe one in ten. In other words what we've built is not an engineered solution it's a Heath Robinson contraption that is going to cost a fortune to maintain and be really hard to change. Parts of it will be world class at what they do but every one of them will work slightly differently when it comes to accessing the file system or reporting. Every library we depend on will have it's own approach to portability and probably thousands of lines of code to solve the same problems all the other libraries also have to solve, in a slightly different way.
This is why large projects get exponentially more difficult under linear growth, even within the scales where the C++ infrastructre is comfortably able to cope. We get duplication, code bloat, dependency hell and, as Mary Poppins would say, 'In short you have a ghastly mess.'

There are several ways these issues might be tackled.

The 'correct' way is often claimed to be to 'just use idiomatic C++', which of course leaves you writing all the infrastructural code of your applications from scratch using only the low level constructs of the standard library each time. This is slow and doesn't scale. More importantly it doesn't fit within the remit of a commercial project to build a specific application. You're supposed to be delivering functionality, what are you doing writing a state machine, rule engine, parser, error handling system, resource manager...?

We could pick a large set of fine grained libraries for everything from strings to widgets. Each of which does only one thing and does it well. This seems like it would agree with the Single Responsibility pattern and should give us a high quality result. In practice getting our chosen set of libraries to interoperate is likely going to be a nightmare worse than the toil of writing everything higher level than std::map ourselves. Each and every library will have its own level of portability, it's own definitions, style and assumptions. The chances of even being able to pass objects between them are low to nothing.

We could go for an integrated framework like Qt which will give us those missing higher level constructs like Signals and Application classes as well as OpenGL Windows and i18n. This will also solve the consistency problems at the cost of being constrained by the quality, scope and portability of our framework. If the framework has a particular way of doing things, like allocating everything on the heap, we just have to live with it. 
Framework by-in is a huge decision and developing our applications becomes an exercise in learning the framework interface and using that as a domain speific language (DSL) for building applications. At that point we've somewhat replaced C++ with a higher level language, implemented in C++, that we don't own and can't change. At best we can extend it, until the next version breaks our extensions.

At scale the least awful of these options is almost always integrated framework by-in. Time to market is almost always more important than developers understand, or management are willing to admit. Mature frameworks encapsulate an enormous body of accumulated knowledge, time and testing, that is often worth the price of the framework's constraints, at least early on. As developers we get rapid prototyping and a perfect set of excuses for why anything the framework doesn't support is going to be slow, expensive and probably a bad idea. The world gets smaller and therefore simpler. Until there's a hard business requirement that the framework simply can't support, like a new mobile OS.
